# 0001. Rebuilding the Old Architecture

Date: 2026-07-16

## Status

Ongoing

## Context

<!-- What is the issue that motivates this decision? What forces (technical, business, team) are at play? -->

Old code was too unnecessarily complex and hard to maintain. First batch of code was generated by cursor for the mockups, and then just js patched on top of it to build the functionalities. The website also had performance issues with per page caching their own data, which made the user experience very inconsistent, cache per page would run in their own timers, and refetched only when that specific page is mounted.

## Decision

I have decided to rebuild the individual features one by one, making a copy of the old, then slowly rebuilding until the rebuilt feature works the same way as of the old with much more cleaner code with my new knowledge. I Also fixed the issue with the old caching problems by implementing a global cache system instead, ive put the sales table in cache with a context provider. So the new flow is app will load, once with the data, cache it with the lifetime of the cache of 5mins. and wrapped by records, intelligence and dashboard page. with this implementation the loading is very controlled, load once and it gets used in the 3 pages, since those said pages also run with the same data but with just different aggregation.

## Consequences

The consequence of this is ive accepted the fact that i need to load the entire rows of sales table, for those pages. which at front queries heavy load in the database on each load time. while dashboard only needs 30days of data. intelligence table only needing the data for more than 2 years worth of data, and records page also just needing the first few months of data. or at the instance the admins are using, might only even need the data that is worth 7 days or so

## Alternatives Considered

The alternatives ive definetly considered and honestly, i might change to soon. is having kpi cards, pull their own data, with their own cache, the trade off of this is, this is much more code to write, with making 4 queries on just for the KPI cards, and having their own asynchronous loading states. the benefit of this is its much more lighter to query since we are just fetching on some pages worth 7 days vs the current 2years always and on one time.

But the downside for that is, loading will be similar to the old behavior that i didnt really like, after navigating with the page, itll be quering again and waiting for loading to finish, while i just waited for the records page to load.
